Who am I? You sure you want to know?
The story of my life
is not for the faint of heart.
If somebody said
it was a happy little tale...
...if somebody told you I was just an
average guy, not a care in the world...
...somebody lied.
But let me assure you, this,
like any story worth telling...
...is all about a girl.
That girl. The girl next door.
Mary Jane Watson.
The woman I've loved
since before I liked girls.
I'd like to tell you that's me
next to her.
Aw, heck, I'd even take him.
Hey! Stop the bus!
That's me .
Tell him to stop! Please!
Stop!
Hey! Stop the bus!
Stop! He's been chasing us
since Woodhaven.
Catch a cab, Parker!
Thank you. I'm sorry I'm late.
What a geek!
- Don't even think about it.
- You're so lame, Parker.
Would you date him?
Midtown High seniors.
No wandering. Proceed direct...
Knock it off.
Remember, it is a privilege
to be here.
We're guests of Columbia University's
Science Department.
So behave accordingly.
Let's not have a repeat
of our trip to the planetarium.
Come on, stay together.
Proceed up the steps
and into the building.
- Where were you?
- Checking out the library.
- Looking at the books.
- Yeah, right.
- Can we drive around the corner?
- Why?
The entrance is right there.
Dad, this is public school.
I can't show up in a Rolls.
I should trade my car for a Jetta...
...because you flunked out
of private school?
- It wasn't for me.
- Of course it was.
- Don't ever be ashamed of who you are.
- I'm not ashamed of who I am.
It's just...
Just what, Harry?
Forget it.
Pete!
- Hi, Harry.
- Hey, man. What's up?
- Won't you be needing this?
- Thanks.
- This is my father, Norman Osborn.
- I've heard so much about you.
- It's an honor, sir.
- Harry says you're a science whiz.
I'm something of a scientist myself.
I read your research
on nanotechnology. Brilliant.
- You understood it?
- Yes, I wrote a paper on it.
Impressive.
Your parents must be very proud.
- I live with my aunt and uncle.
- Hey, you two! Let's move!
- Nice to meet you.
- Hope to see you again.
- He doesn't seem so bad.
- Not if you're a genius.
I think he wants to adopt you.
There are over 32,000 known species
of spider in the world.
They're in the order Araneae,
divided into three suborders.
That's amazing!
This is the most advanced electron
microscope on the East Coast.
It's unreal.
Arachnids from all three
groups possess...
...varying strengths
to help them search for food.
For example, the Delena spider,
family Sparassidae...
...has the ability to jump
to catch its prey.
For the school paper?
Next, we have the net web spider,
family Filistatidae...
...genus Kukulcania.
Spins a funnel-shaped web whose
strands have a tensile strength...
...proportionately equal to
the high-tension wires used in bridges.
- Leave him alone.
- Or what?
Or his father will fire your father.
What's Daddy gonna do? Sue me?
What is going on?
The next person who talks
will fail this course.
- This spider...
- Let's go.
...hunts using reflexes with
nerve-conduction velocity so fast...
...that some researchers believe
it borders on precognition.
- An early awareness of danger.
- Jerks.
A spider-sense.
Hey, look at that spider.
Some spiders change colors
to blend into their environment.
It's a defense mechanism.
Peter, what makes you think
I'd want to know that?
Who wouldn't?
Over five painstaking years,
Columbia's research facility...
- You gonna talk to her now?
- Oh, no. Come on. You talk to her.
With these DNA blueprints, we have
begun what was once thought impossible.
- Disgusting.
- Yeah, hateful little things.
I love them!
Yeah, me too.
You know, spiders can change
their color...
...to blend into their environment.
- Really?
- Yeah, it's a defense mechanism.
- Cool.
- transfer RNA
to encode an entirely new genome...
...combining the genetic
information from all three...
...into these 15 genetically
designed super-spiders.
There's 14.
I beg your pardon?
- One's missing.
- Yeah.
I guess the researchers
are working on that one.
Do you know that this is the largest
electron microscope on the East Coast?
You were talking throughout
that woman's entire presentation.
Let's talk about listening.
I don't know what it's like
at those fancy private schools...
...but at Midtown High...
Could I take your picture?
I need one with a student in it.
- Sure.
- Great.
Where do you want me?
Over here?
Yeah, that's great.
Don't make me look ugly.
That's impossible.
Perfect.
- Is that good?
- Great.
That's great.
M.J., let's go!
Wait. Thanks!
Parker, let's do it.
We've solved the horizon glide
and the balance issues.
I've already seen the glider.
That's not what I'm here for.
General Slocum, good to see you again.
Mr. Balkan, Mr. Fargas.
- Norman.
- Mr. Osborn.
Always a pleasure to have
our board of directors visit.
I want the report on human
performance enhancers.
We tried vapor inhalation with rats.
Their strength increased by 800%.
- Excellent.
- Any side effects?
Once.
All the tests since
have been successful.
In the trial that went wrong,
what were the side effects?
Violence, aggression...
...and insanity.
- What do you recommend?
- That was only one test.
Except for Dr. Stromm,
our staff certifies the product...
...ready for human testing.
- Dr. Stromm?
We need to take the whole line
back to formula.
- Back to formula?
- Dr. Osborn.
I'll be frank with you.
I never supported your program. We
have my predecessor to thank for that.
The general has approved
Quest Aerospace...
...to build a prototype
of their exoskeleton.
- They test in two weeks.
- And if your performance enhancers...
...have not had a successful
human trial by that date...
...l'm gonna pull your funding.
I'm going to give it to them.
Gentlemen. Ladies.
And the Lord said, "Let there be light."
And voila! There is light.
Forty soft, glowing watts of it.
Good boy. God will be thrilled.
Just don't fall on your ass.
I'm already on my ass, May.
When the plant's senior electrician
is laid off after 35 years...
...what would you call it?
I am on my ass.
Hand me that dish. The green one.
The corporation is downsizing
the people...
...and upsizing their profits.
Oh, Ben, you'll get another job
somewhere.
Well, let's look
in the paper and see.
There are the want ads.
What do we got here?
Computer...
Computer salesman, computer engineer,
computer analyst.
My Lord, even the computers
need analysts these days.
I'm 68. I'm too old for computers, and
besides, I have a family to provide for.
I love you. And Peter loves you.
You're the most responsible man
I've ever known.
We've been down-and-out before.
But somehow, we survive.
Hi, sweetie. You're just...
Just in time for dinner.
How you doing? How was the field trip?
I don't feel well.
I'm gonna go to sleep.
- You won't have a bite?
- Had a bite.
Did you get some pictures, Peter?
I gotta crash. Everything's fine.
What's that all about?
In this recombination lab...
...we use synthesized transfer RNA
to encode an entirely new genome...
...combining the genetic
information from all three...
...into these 15 genetically
designed super- spiders.
Dr. Osborn, please.
The performance enhancers aren't ready.
The data just doesn't justify
this test.
Now, I'm asking you for the last time.
We can't do this.
Don't be a coward.
Risks are part of laboratory science.
Let me reschedule,
with a medical staff and a volunteer.
- Just give me two weeks.
- Two weeks?
In two weeks? We'll have lost the contract
to Quest and OSCORP will be dead.
Sometimes you gotta
do things yourself.
- Get me the Promachloraperazine.
- For what?
It begins catalyzation when the vapor
hits the bloodstream.
40,000 years of evolution...
...and we've barely tapped
the vastness of human potential.
Oh, that's cold.
Norman?
Norman!
Oh, my God.
Oh, my God!
Oh, my God! Norman!
Back to formula?
Weird.
- Peter?
- Yeah?
Are you all right?
I'm fine.
- Any better this morning? Any change?
- Change?
Yep. Big change.
- Well, hurry up. You'll be late.
- Right.
Okay.
- Goodness me!
- Jeez. I thought you were sick.
- I got better.
- See?
- Bye, guys.
- Have you got your lunch money?
Don't forget, we're painting
the kitchen after school.
Sure, Uncle Ben.
Don't start without me.
And don't start up with me.
Teenagers. Raging hormones.
They never change.
You're trash!
You're always gonna be trash!
- I have to go to school.
- Who's stopping you?
Hi, M.J.
Hey, M.J.
I don't know if you realize this, but
we've been neighbors since I was 6.
And I was wondering
if we could get together sometime?
I got the car. Hop in.
Do something fun?
Or, I don't know.
I thought it'd be time
to get to know each other.
Or not.
Sorry, Parker, the bus is full!
- Stop the bus!
- Catch a cab!
Tell him to stop.
- Check him out!
- Dork!
Dad!
Dad, are you all right?
Harry.
What are you doing on the floor?
I don't know.
Have you been there all night?
Last night I was...
What?
- I don't remember.
- Mr. Osborn?
Sir, I asked her to wait.
- My father's not feeling well...
- Mr. Osborn, Dr. Stromm is dead.
What?
They found his body in the lab.
He's been murdered, sir.
- What?
- And the flight suit and the glider...
- What about it?
- Stolen, sir.
Wow! Great reflexes!
- Thanks.
- No problem.
Hey, you have blue eyes.
I didn't notice without your glasses.
You just get contacts?
Well, see you.
- What happened?
- He's freaking weird.
Did you see that?
Parker?
- It's a fight!
- Think you're funny?
- It was an accident.
- So is my breaking your teeth.
- Flash, stop.
- I don't want to fight you.
- I wouldn't want to fight me neither.
- Kick his ass.
Help him, Harry.
How'd he do that?
Which one?
He's all yours, man.
Flash, get up!
Jesus, Parker, you are a freak.
That was amazing.
I'm out of here. Come on.
Go, web!
Fly.
Up, up and away, web.
Shazam!
Go! Go!
Go, web, go!
Tallyho.
Michelangelo!
Meat loaf and veggies in oven.
- Is she back with the beer yet?
- What?
Bring me some beer.
- Get up off your ass.
- I paid for beer...
- Stop yelling.
- Stop it!
You're as stupid as your mother.
Where's she going?
Where you going?
The dishes aren't done.
Somebody's gotta do dishes.
- Why don't you do them?
- Get in here and do the dishes.
- You do them. They're yours, anyway.
- I'm going out!
- Were you listening to that?
- No.
Well, I heard, but I was
just taking out the trash.
I guess you can always hear us.
Everybody shouts.
Your aunt and uncle don't.
Oh, they can scream
pretty good sometimes.
Listen, M.J., about today
at school with Flash...
You really freaked us out.
I'm sorry. Is he okay?
He's just happy you didn't give him
a black eye for graduation.
So where are you going
after you graduate?
I wanna move into the city.
And hopefully, get a job
as a photographer.
Work my way through college.
What about you?
Headed for the city too.
Can't wait to get out of here.
I wanna...
What?
No, come on. Try me.
I wanna...
...act...
...on-stage.
Really?
Oh, that's perfect.
You were awesome
in all the school plays.
- Really?
- Yeah.
I cried like a baby
when you played Cinderella.
Peter, that was first grade.
Well...
...even so.
Sometimes...
...you know people.
You can just see what's coming.
What do you see coming for you?
I don't know.
Whatever it is, it's something
I never felt before.
And what for me?
For you?
You're gonna light up Broadway.
You know...
...you're taller than you look.
I hunch.
Don't.
Hey, M.J.! Come take a ride
in my new birthday present.
Come on.
I gotta go.
Bye.
- Oh, my God, it's gorgeous!
- Yeah, right.
- Look at it!
- Hop in.
Oh, my God. What a cool car!
Pretty tight, huh?
Wait till you hear the sound system.
Hey, don't scratch the leather.
Cool car.
What's going on in there?
I'm exercising.
I'm not dressed, Aunt May.
Well, you're acting
so strangely, Peter.
Okay. Thanks.
Is this the End of
Norman Osborn?
Something's wrong.
Maybe he's too embarrassed to tell me.
Maybe I'm too embarrassed to ask him.
I just don't know anymore.
I'm going to the library.
See you later.
- Wait. I'll drive you there.
- I'll take the train.
No, I need the exercise.
Go on. Go, go.
- Thanks for the ride, Uncle Ben.
- Wait. We need to talk.
- We can talk later.
- Well, we can talk now. If you let me.
What do we have to talk about?
Why now?
We haven't talked for so long.
May and I don't know who you are.
You shirk your chores. You have all
those weird experiments in your room.
- You start fights at school.
- I told you I didn't start that fight.
- You sure finished it.
- Was I supposed to run away?
No, you're not supposed
to run away, but...
You're changing. I went through
exactly the same thing at your age.
No. Not exactly.
These are the years
when a man changes...
...into the man he's gonna become
the rest of his life.
Just be careful who you change into.
This guy, Flash Thompson,
he probably deserved what happened.
But just because you can
beat him up...
...doesn't give you the right to.
Remember, with great power
comes great responsibility.
Are you afraid I'll become a criminal?
Quit worrying about me, okay?
Something's different.
I'll figure it out. Stop lecturing.
I don't mean to lecture or preach.
And I know I'm not your father.
Then stop pretending to be!
Right.
I'll pick you up here at 10.
Bone Saw! Bone Saw! Bone Saw!
- One, two, three. That's it!
- Who's the man?
Ladies and gentlemen...
...give it up for Bone Saw McGraw.
For $3000...
...is there no one here man enough
to stay in the ring...
...for three minutes
with this titan of testosterone?
Who?
I know who.
The Flying Dutchman!
Next.
There's no featherweight
division here. Next.
No, no. Sign me up.
Okay. You understand the NYWL
is not responsible...
...for any injury you may and probably
will sustain in said event?
And you're participating
under your own free will?
Down the hall to the ramp.
May God be with you. Next.
Told you! Told you!
Winner!
Next victim!
Are you ready for more?
Bone Saw is ready!
Will the next victim please
enter the arena at this time?
If he can withstand just three minutes
in the cage with Bone Saw McGraw...
...the sum of $3000 will be paid to...
- What's your name, kid?
- The Human Spider.
That's it? That's the best you got?
- Yeah.
- Oh, that sucks.
The sum of $3000 will be paid to...
...the terrifying, the deadly...
...the amazing Spider-Man!
- It's "The Human Spider."
- Get out there.
- No, he got my name wrong.
- Get out there, moron.
Bone Saw will eat you up
and spit you out.
I hope you brought your mommy.
- We'll break you!
- You'll need someone to cry to.
I'm gonna rip all eight of your
feeble legs off one by one.
Oh, my God!
Oh, my legs!
Oh, God. I can't feel my legs.
Kill! Kill! Kill!
Cage! Cage! Cage!
Cage!
Hello? Guys?
Will the guards please lock
the cage doors at this time?
This is some kind of mistake.
I didn't sign up for a cage match!
Unlock the thing! Take the chain off!
Hey, freak show!
You're going nowhere.
I got you for three minutes.
Three minutes of playtime.
- What are you doing up there?
- Staying away from you.
That's a cute outfit.
Did your husband give it to you?
Finish him off!
Smash him!
- Hit him!
- Harder!
Kick his spider ass!
Hit him!
One, two, three!
That's it! That's it!
Winner!
Ladies and gentlemen, give it up
for the new champion, Spider-Man!
Now get out of here.
A hundred bucks? The ad said 3000.
Well, check it again, webhead.
It said three grand for three minutes.
You pinned him in two.
For that, I give you 100.
You're lucky to get that.
I need that money.
I missed the part
where that's my problem.
- Hey, what the hell...?
- Put the money in the bag.
Hurry up!
Hey! He stole the gate!
Stop that guy!
Stop him! He's got my money!
Thanks.
What's wrong with you?
You let him go!
Cut him off and call the cops!
You could've taken that guy apart.
Now he'll get away.
I missed the part
where that's my problem.
- You gotta get back.
- I can't see. What happened?
Old dude, man.
Come on, folks. Keep moving, please.
Keep moving. Let's go!
- What happened?
- Someone got hurt.
- Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me.
- Stay back.
- Stay back!
- That's my uncle!
- What happened?
- Carjacker. He's been shot.
We just called the paramedics.
They're on their way.
Uncle Ben?
Uncle Ben.
Peter.
I'm here, Uncle Ben.
They got the shooter.
He's headed south on Fifth.
We got three cars in pursuit.
All right, folks. Come on, move back.
Get a unit to the rear!
I got the back!
Who's there?
Don't hurt me. Give me a chance.
Give me a chance!
What about my uncle?
Did you give him a chance? Did you?
Answer me!
Stop that guy!
Thanks.
See you.
Freeze! We've got the place
completely surrounded.
Oh, no. My God.
Oh, no.
Oh, my God. No!
- Good evening.
- General. Good to see you.
Our exoskeleton's got
real firepower, general.
Well, if it does what you say it can,
I'll sign that contract tomorrow.
- He's clear! Go!
- You're confident about this test?
Absolutely. Curtis is our top pilot.
Now, what about
your commitment to OSCORP?
Nothing would please me more
than to put Osborn out of business.
Preflight complete. Mark.
An unidentified object
is closing fast.
What's that?
Can you see anything?
Oh, my God!
- Say "chess."
- Chess!
Peter!
Darling, I'm so proud of you.
You looked so handsome up there.
Dad got the place in New York,
so we're all set for fall.
- Great!
- You made it.
It's not the first time
I've been proven wrong.
- Congratulations.
- Thanks, Dad.
Peter, the science award.
That's terrific.
Yeah.
I know this has been
a difficult time for you...
...but I want you to try
to enjoy this day.
Commencement:
The end of one thing,
the start of something new.
I don't want to be with you anymore.
Here's your ring.
You know what? Whatever.
Your loss.
You're like a brother to Harry.
That makes you family.
And if you ever need anything,
give me a call.
Can I fix you something?
No, thanks.
I missed him a lot today.
I know.
I miss him too.
But he was there.
I can't help thinking about
the last thing I said to him.
He tried to tell me something important,
and I threw it in his face.
You loved him...
...and he loved you.
He never doubted
the man you'd grow into.
How you were meant for great things.
You won't disappoint him.
With great power
comes great responsibility.
Remember that, Pete. Remember that.
Hurry up!
He's not a man. My brother saw him
build a nest in Lincoln Center.
I think he's human, a man.
Could be a woman.
Bobby. Get a load of this!
He throws up his hands,
ropes come out, and he climbs up them.
I see the web, his signature,
and I know Spider-Man was here.
The guy protects us,
protects the people.
Some kind of freakyloo or something.
He stinks and I don't like him.
Don't move, lady!
Courtesy, Your Friendly
Neighborhood Spider-Man
Guy with eight hands. Sounds hot.
Those tights and that tight little...
Dresses like a spider
He looks like a bug
But we should all just give him
One big hug
Look out
Here comes the Spider- Man
"Who is Spider-Man?"
He's a criminal, that's who he is.
A vigilante, a public menace.
Why's he on my front page?
Mr. Jameson, your wife needs...
- There's a page six problem.
- We have a page one problem.
- Well?
- He's news.
- The clients can't wait.
- They're about to.
- He pulled six people off a subway.
- From a wreck he probably caused.
Something goes wrong and he's there.
Look! He's fleeing the scene.
He's probably going to save
somebody else. He's a hero!
Then why the mask?
What's he got to hide?
She needs to know
if you want chintz or chenille.
- Whichever's cheaper.
- It's like this:
We double-booked page six.
Macy's and Conway's both have...
- We sold out four printings.
- Sold out?
Every copy.
Tomorrow, Spider-Man, page one.
Move Conway to page seven.
- That's a problem.
- Then make it page eight.
- That can't be done.
- Get out!
We can't get a decent picture. Eddie's
on it, but we can barely see him.
Aw, what is he, shy?
If we can get Julia Roberts
in a thong, we can get this weirdo.
On the front page:
"Cash for a Spider-Man picture."
He doesn't want to be famous?
I'll make him infamous!
Buzz off.
- M.J., it's me, Peter.
- Hi!
- What are you doing around here?
- Begging for a job. How about you?
- I'm headed to an audition.
- An audition? So you're acting?
Yeah.
I work steady.
In fact, I just got off a job.
That's great.
- You're doing it. Living your dream.
- Glamour girl!
Your drawer was short $6!
Next time, I'll take it
from your check.
Excuse me, Miss Watson?
I'm talking to you! Hey!
Yes, Enrique! Okay? I get you.
It better not happen no more.
Don't roll your eyes at me.
Some dream, huh?
It's nothing to be
embarrassed about.
- Don't tell Harry.
- Don't tell Harry?
Don't you guys live together?
We're going out. Didn't he tell you?
Oh, yeah. Right.
I think he'd hate the idea
of my waiting tables.
- He'd think it was low or something.
- It's not low. You have a job.
You know, Harry doesn't live on
a little place I like to call Earth.
No, I guess not.